# README – Artificial distribution maps

## Overview

Contains 8,335 `.tif` files (CRS: EPSG:3577 (GDA94 / Australian Albers)). These are artificial distribution maps engineered to exhibit a controlled range of agreement with the real probability of occurrence. 

Unlike species distribution maps created with predictive models, this dataset is artificialy generated to ensure a balanced representation of "good" and "bad" performing maps. This prevents the results from being skewed by an over-representation of high-performing models. 

Pre-calculated random correlation values between the artificial distribution maps and the real probability of occurrence can be found in `data/resultsMain/maps_cor.RDS`.

To simulate diverse error structures (e.g., clumpy vs. fine-grained noise), the Gaussian Random Field is generated with randomized `autocorr_range` values: 20, 50, 100, 500, or 800.

> **Note on file size**: Due to the total size of all maps beeing **56.7GB**, only a small selection of example files is included in this repository. The complete set can be generated by running the script `R/03_artificial_distribution_maps.R`.



## Naming Convention

Files follow a standardized naming convention to identify the specific simulation parameters. The structure is:

`VSXX_FOLDS_MODEL_testDataD_pointsYYY_replicatesZZ.tif`

### Parameter Reference Table

| Component | Example | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| **VSXX** | `VS01` | **Virtual Species ID**: Identifier for the species (VS01–VS10). |
| **FOLDS** | `block1` | **Partitioning Strategy**: The CV method used (`KNNDM`, `random`, `block1`, `block2`, `clusters`). |
| **MODEL** | `NA` | **Model Type**: Placeholder for the algorithm. `NA` indicates a artificial map. |
| **testDataD** | `testData1` | **Test Fold**: The specific fold ID (1–6) used as the independent testing set. |
| **pointsYYY** | `points40` | **Sample Size**: The number of presence points sampled. |
| **replicatesZZ** | `replicates1` | **Replicate**: The iteration number (1–5). |

## Data Generation

All files in this directory were generated with `R/03_artificial_distribution_maps.R`.

**Software used:**
R version 4.4.2
terra 1.8-5
raster 3.6-32
climateStability 0.1.4
NLMR 1.1.1
RandomFields 3.3.14
RandomFieldsUtils 1.2.5
dplyr 1.1.4